
Some questions about pricing theory.

1. Is learning by working on the job cheaper than formal schooling? (See chapter 9.) 

Can we assume working on a job can teach all that would be taught in formal schooling - I.e. that the two are interchangeable.
Also what does cheaper mean here?
And if we can define cheaper is it for the for the worker or employer?

For the employer - 

Grades in an Education can indicate competency we might be challenged to find when picking candidates.
Getting an untrained worker on a job is high risk - they are expected to make mistakes and be less productive during their training.
Training also mean down time for experienced workers engaged training. 
There is an expectation that once the workers are trained they will move on to other firms.
On the job training can be minimal and optimized to the firms needs avoiding theory and focusing on practical skills.


For an employer 

Getting formal schooling is expensive, 


2. What is the difference between prohibiting marijuana sales and subjecting its sales to a high tax? (See chapter 12.) 

Prohibiting  requires using police and courts to fight it.
Taxing it means we can use the tax to drive up prices and reduce consumptions and perhaps employ this tax to mitigate damages


3. A great many manufacturers use machines and labor in fixed proportions. 
Does that mean that the wage rate has little effect on the amount of labor used in manufacturing? (See chapter 7.) 

No
The rate of manufacturing depends on the bottlenecks. These should dictate spendings on labour and machines.
Regarding rate of wages - again one should pay most for the most productive workers.

Some the machines are multipliers for the work of laborers.
Some machines replace laborers out right
So tasks are challenging to automate and require unskilled labour others require highly skilled labourers.


4. Does the availability of e-books reduce the sales of physical books? (See chapter 11.) 

Cost of creating and transporting ebooks is lower. Ebooks have a higher margin.
This means that sellers will prefer to sell e-books over physical books so we should expect a reduction of sales of physical books.


5. When housing prices are above their long-run values and continue to rise, is that good evidence that home buyers or builders have unrealistic expectations about the future? (See chapter 15.) 

Yes and this indicates it is smarter to rent then buy.

6. Could a billion dollars in federal subsidies to farmers increase farm incomes by more than one billion? (This chapter.) 

Yes it can - subsidy can take place in a small market but drive up the price of the same goods in its main market
